---
expirydate: 2019-12-30
title:  On Medium
subexpirydate: 2019-12-30
title:  Neither Rare nor Well Done
date: 2016-04-05 20:19
published: false
---

Nick Heer has a [good roundup][1] of medium-sized sites that are moving their publications to Medium. Heer: 

> Propping the struggling news industry up with the support of completely unprofitable Silicon Valley startups seems like it’s could wreak havoc in the not-too-distant future. 

This is where I stop. Every time. I've gone to Medium several times to try and explore adding my site to their list of publications, and every time I walk away. It's a lack of trust. 

Yet, there are a _staggering_ number of writers and publications moving to Medium. For me, the biggest surprise was Basecamp's [Signal v. Noise making the move][2]. 

In their piece, DHH addresses this reason: 

> Third, running our own blog system is a classic case of the cobbler’s shoe syndrome. Yes, we’re well capable of technically making a great blog system, keeping it updated, and keeping the design fresh, but it falls to the bottom of the list of priorities against making Basecamp better. So we don’t, and it languishes. Why not just use something off-the-shelve that others have as their sole mission to make the best?

> Fourth, Medium has listened to the concerns of publishers. By offering custom domains, we’re ensured that no permalink ever has to break, even if we leave the platform. By committing to never showing advertisement, unless the publisher consents, we can remain with Basecamp as the sole commercial sponsor of Signal v. Noise. Between these two facts, we feel confident about owning our content and our legacy, regardless of where Medium-The-$82M-VC-Funded-Company goes.


[1]:	http://pxlnv.com/linklog/medium-sized-move-to-medium/
[2]:	https://m.signalvnoise.com/signal-v-noise-moves-to-medium-c8083ce19686#.wyit0asok