---
title: Thinking about Things
date: 2013-11-19 00:48
layout: post
published: false
---
Michael Lopp recently wrote a poignant post titled "[R.I.P. Things](http://randsinrepose.com/archives/r-i-p-things/)" about his move away from the task manager application Things. Having been a user of Things for a couple years, I thought it might be a good time to write about my own relationship with the software as well. 

I originally started using Things near the end of my first semester in college. I was crumbling under the pressure to remember a million different deadlines and exam topics, and I started looking for a better way to manage my tasks than the scraps of paper I had been using. After reading though multiple reviews of different applications, my choice was between Things by Cultured Code or OmniFocus by The Omni Group. I decided on Things for two reasons: 1.) I thought the user interface was considerably more polished and simple than OmniFocus, and 2.) Things for iOS only cost $10 vesus OmniFocus's $20. 

For the first year, the app worked remarkably well for my workflow &mdash; so well that I even bought the Mac application &mdash; however, the lack of syncing between the two clients became an immediate and constant pain. 

Although Things did eventually get syncing, which was much faster than iCloud at the time, I found that 

> The issue that pushed me over the edge had nothing to do with functionality or stability, but stagnation. I was performing my morning scrub on Things when I realized that nothing much had changed in Things UI in, well, years.