---
title: My Frozen Yogurt Recipe
date: 2013-12-22 20:22
layout: post
category: post
---
Frozen yogurt (froyo) cafes have become quite popular around these parts. And despite the fact that a bowl of frozen yogurt topped with candy, cookies, and flavored toppings is in no way "more" healthy for you than a bowl of ice cream, I am quite fond of the whole experience.

<aside>_A word to the wise: go light on the fruit; they're dense. Once, my fiancee and I ran up $20 worth of froyo, and it was all the dang kiwi I had put in my bowl._
</aside>

For those unfamiliar with the froyo experience, the basic routine goes something like this: walk into the cafe and pick a bowl, fill said bowl with a variety of ice creams, yogurts, toppings, candies, fruits, and flavored drizzles. Finally, pay by the ounce for your meal and enjoy.


Regardless, nothing will spoil a good froyo experience faster than overdoing the mixing process. You _might_ like chocolate, strawberry, and mint as separate flavors, but throw them all into the same bowl and the combination could be terrible.

After countless trial and error, I have finally settled on, what I believe to be, the best frozen yogurt recipe. If you enjoy vanilla and a good cup of coffee, try this out:

## Ingredients
- Vanilla cake batter
- Vanilla yogurt
- Granola
- Chipped mints
- Espresso beans
- Raspberries
- Broken up peanuts
- Kiwi
- Caramel

## Instructions

Start with a small base-layer of vanilla cake batter ice cream. Follow up with another light layer of vanilla yogurt (it is fro**yo** after all). Next, add about a tablespoon of granola to the mix, followed by another tablespoon of chipped mints. If possible, you want to add five to 10 espresso beans (they give a nice little kick every couple bites). Next, drop two or three tablespoons of crushed / broken peanuts on top, throw in a few raspberries, and top it all off with a (single) kiwi. Finally, stir in a small amount of caramel syrup. Eat immediately.

