---
title: Some News from this Week
date: 2014-03-07 22:02
layout: post
category: post
---
This past week, my school has been on spring break. I've been catching up on the news whenever I get a chance, but haven't had a chance to do much writing. Nonetheless, here are some of the more choice news stories you should check out, should you have missed them:

### The XP-Factor
Peter Bright, in a recent article for _Wired_, shares that [Windows XP still has 29% of the total computer operating system share](http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/weeks-before-expiration-date-windows-xp-still-has-29-os-market-share/). Not good news, considering that Microsoft will be dropping support for XP after April 8.

### Time Magazine Website Redesign
Time Magazine has [redesigned their website](http://time.com) to feature a more simple, clean layout. I'm also a fan of the new "Just Posted" sidebar on the left.

### Putt-Putt Perfection
Did you know there is a difference between putt-putt and miniature golf? The latter is what I've been playing on summer nights for the past 15 years, but the former is a legitament form of competition &mdash; sans any clowns or windmill cutouts. Earlier this week, Grantland writer, David Jacoby, [wrote up a great piece](http://grantland.com/the-triangle/putt-putt-perfection/):

> On April 9, 2011, at a tournament in Richmond, Virginia, an IT manager named Rick Baird notched 18 straight hole-in-one shots to record a perfect putt-putt score. In more than 50 years of sanctioned competition, it was just the third time that anyone had achieved the feat.

### Kan't Brew That
Interesting news for fans of the Kuerig coffee-brewing machine, manufactured by Green Mountain Coffee. Robinson Meyer for _The Atlantic_:

> [Green Mountain Coffee has] historically operated on a razor blade model: Its Keurig business makes real money not by selling machine brewers but by selling K-Cups. Now cheaper competitors have moved in. They sell inexpensive one-off cups and reusable, extensible cups—threatening the company’s business on both sides.

To help fight the reusable-cup market, the next version of Kuerig will [only brew your coffee if an actual K-Cup is inserted](http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/03/soon-our-robot-coffee-baristas-will-only-brew-certain-brands/284193/).

### FlyBook
The _New York Times_ is reporting that Facebook is [looking to acquire Titan Aerospace](http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/03/04/now-facebook-has-a-drone-plan/), a drone manufacturer. Why would Facebook want drones? The most likely reason would be to help Zuckerberg further his recent efforts with [Internet.org](http://internet.org), which describes itself as "a global partnership dedicated to making internet access available to the two thirds of the world not yet connected."
